---
layout: post
title: "CCNA 301"
date: 2024-08-18 11:00:00 -0000
categories: exam networking
tags: tutorial exam
image:
 path: /assets/img/headers/CCNA301header.webp
---


# My own take on a CCNA Study Guide

The goal of this page is to offer a straightforward and helpful guide to the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) certification. There are tons of great free and paid resources out there websites, books, and video courses — but I found some of them a bit confusing, with topics overlapping and making it harder to get a clear understanding.

I had better luck learning the CCNA material in the order laid out by the official CCNA topics. So, I’ve put together this page to follow that same structure.

I personally learn best by taking things step by step and checking off each topic as I go. I also find it really useful to get hands-on practice, so each topic here comes with a practical task to help you apply what you’ve learned. Real-world examples are the best way to make the theory stick.

You’ll find each topic broken down into bullet points with brief explanations, plus a summary at the end to cover the key points you need to know to pass the CCNA.

If you hit a snag with any topics, I would recomend sticking with the topic and use a mix of resources like video tutorials, technical pages, and blog posts to get a better grip only the moving onto the next topic. 

# Prerequisites

Here are some software tools and resources I recommend to help with learning the material for the certification:

- **Cisco Packet Tracer**: This network emulation software is invaluable for demonstrating network activity and configuring Cisco switches and routers. It also allows for basic configuration of PCs and servers, making it a great tool for hands-on practice. [PacketTracer 8 Download](https://www.netacad.com/courses/packet-tracer)

- **Wireshark**: A powerful tool for examining frames, packets, and segments. Wireshark is particularly useful for seeing real-world examples of network activity and understanding how data travels through a network. [Wireshark Download](https://www.wireshark.org/#downloadLinkRL)

- **Topic Check-off Sheet**: A helpful resource for tracking your progress through the various topics. This sheet will help you keep track of what you've studied and what you still need to cover. [Download a Copy](www.google.com)

These tools and resources will support your learning journey and help solidify your understanding of networking concepts.


## Network Fundamentals
The topics below make up 20 percent of the the CCNA 301 as of Auguest 2024. 
### Explain the role and function of network components

#### 1 Explain the role and function of network components
##### 1.1.a Routers
##### 1.1.b Layer 2 and Layer 3 switches
##### 1.1.c Next-generation firewalls and IPS
##### 1.1.d Access points
##### 1.1.e Controllers (Cisco DNA Center and WLC)
##### 1.1.f Endpoints
##### 1.1.g Servers
##### 1.1.h PoE

## Network Access

## IP Connectivity

## IP Services

## Security Fundamentals

## Automation and Programmability